![endif]-->



Tigers are the biggest cats in the world. Their coat is a reddish-orange coat and there are vertical black stripes on the shoulders and flanks that vary in size, spacing, and length. Some subspecies have fur that is paler, some being almost completely white with either dark brown or black stripes along their flanks and shoulders. The muzzle, throat, chest, belly, and underside of the limbs are white or light. Above the eyes, of these beautiful animals, there is a white color that extends to the cheeks. On the back of their ears, there is a white spot. Their tail is reddish-orange in color and ringed by several dark bands.NoNocturnality is an animal behavior characterized by being active during the night and sleeping during the day. The common adjective is "nocturnal",... CaA carnivore meaning 'meat eater' is an organism that derives its energy and nutrient requirements from a diet consisting mainly or exclusively of a... CuA cursorial organism is one that is adapted specifically to run. An animal can be considered cursorial if it has the ability to run fast (e.g. chee... TeTerrestrial animals are animals that live predominantly or entirely on land (e.g., cats, ants, snails), as compared with aquatic animals, which liv... AmAmbush predators are carnivorous animals that capture or trap prey by stealth, luring, or by (typically instinctive) strategies utilizing an elemen... AlAltricial animals are those species whose newly hatched or born young are relatively immobile. They lack hair or down, are not able to obtain food ... NoNomadic animals regularly move to and from the same areas within a well-defined range. Most animals travel in groups in search of better territorie... TeA territory is a sociographical area that which an animal consistently defends against the conspecific competition (or, occasionally, against anima... ViAmong animals, viviparity is the development of the embryo inside the body of the parent. The term 'viviparity' and its adjective form 'viviparous'... Ap An apex predator, also known as a top predator, is a predator at the top of a food chain and has no natural predators. These animals usually occup... PoPolygyny is a mating system in which one male lives and mates with multiple females but each female only mates with a single male. SoSolitary animals are those that live singly and meet only for courtship and mating. DoA dominance hierarchy (formerly and colloquially called a pecking order) is a type of social hierarchy that arises when members of animal social gr... NoAnimals that do not make seasonal movements and stay in their native home ranges all year round are called not migrants or residents. TCaDaGiTigers live in South Asia and Southeast Asia, and also the Russian Far East and China. They inhabit pine and temperate broadleaf and mixed forests, where riparian forests provide food and water. On the Indian subcontinent, these animals live mainly in tropical and subtropical moist broadleaf forests, moist evergreen forests, tropical dry forests, and the swamp forests of the Sundarbans. Tigers can also range from lowland peat swamp forests to rugged montane forests and in tall grass jungles.Tigers are solitary animals, except during the mating season and when the females give birth. They like to be mostly alone, roaming their huge territories in search of food. They are territorial, marking their territory with scratch marks on trees. These animals are most active during the night when their prey is most active. They can, however, be active at any time. They prefer to hunt within dense vegetation, using routes where they are able to move quietly. They knock prey onto the ground with the weight of their body and kill their catch by biting their neck. They are very good swimmers and often bathe in ponds, lakes, and rivers, thus keeping cool in the heat of the day; they can even kill prey while swimming. Tigers communicate through facial expressions and vocally. The most common facial expression includes the "defense threat", where an individual bares its teeth, flattens its ears and its pupils enlarge. Like other members of their family, tigers roar, particularly in aggressive situations, during the mating season, or when making a kill. They will also chuff which is a soft, low-frequency snorting similar to purring in smaller cats. Other vocal communications include grunts, woofs, snarls, miaows, hisses, and growls. All tigers are carnivores, eating mainly sambar deer, water buffalo, wild pigs, and antelope. They sometimes hunt sloth bears, dogs, monkeys, hares, leopards, pythons, and crocodiles.
Tigers are polygynous animals. They have no association with mates aside from mating. Males within one area may compete for access to a female in estrus. November to April is the most common time for breeding. Gestation lasts for about 103 days, and 1 to 7 cubs can be born. They weigh from 780 to 1,600 g (28 to 56 oz) each at birth and are born with their eyes closed. The cubs open their eyes when they are 6 to 14 days old. During the first 11 to 14 days following the birth, the mother tiger spends the majority of her time nursing her young. Weaning takes place at around 90 to 100 days. Cubs remain with their mothers until they reach between 18 months and 3 years of age. They are not reproductively mature until about 3 or 4 years old for females, and for males, it is about 4 to 5 years old.Major reasons for tiger population decline include habitat destruction, habitat fragmentation, and poaching. Tigers are also victims of human-wildlife conflict, particularly in range countries with a high human population density.According to the Defenders Of Wildlife resource, the total population size of the Tiger is around 3,000-4,500 individuals. There are estimated to be less than 2,000 Bengal tigers, 750 to 1,300 Indochinese tigers; 450 Siberian tigers, 400 to 500 Sumatran tigers, and 600 to 800 Malayan tigers. According to the IUCN Red List, the total population size of this species is around 2,154-3,159 mature individuals. Overall, currently, tigers are classified as Endangered (EN) on the IUCN Red List and their numbers today are decreasing.Tigers help control the populations of their large herbivorous prey, which all put pressure on various plant communities. Due to their role as top predators, they are considered keystone species.